## Client Server
	- Uses client server architecture.
		- __SAP_GUI__ is not SAP itself.
		- Client is the __SAP_GUI__ where as the server is the high performance machine which is connected remotely with the SAP GUI.
		- Client (  SAP GUI or Browser )  can by anything which communicates with server.
- ## 2-Layered & 3-Layered artchitecture.
	- ### 2 Layered
		- Presentation Layer.
		- Application Layer + Database Layer.
	- ### 3 Layered
		- Presentation Layer.
		- Application Layer.
		- Database Layer.
- ## R/3 Architecture
	- __R__ stands for Real time architecture.
	- 3 Stands for 3-tier architecture.
	- ### Presentation Layer
	  id:: 674e8778-995b-4a53-97b4-0f03a5c56944
		- Accepts the requests of the users and passes them on the application layer.
		- Responsible of showing the data to the end user.
	- ### Application layer.
	  id:: 674e8a6b-a67b-473b-804d-4f8c0c32484e
		- Communicates with database layer upon any presentation layer request made by the user.
		- Takes the input from presentation layer and processes the request and after forging the the request finally send it to the database layer.
			- __Message server__ : contains the information about the application group and the load balancing information.
				- Used when application server are required to communicate with each other.
		- __Dispatcher__ :
			- Maintain the request in an particular order.
			- Maintains a FIFO data structure.
		- __Work process__ :
			- Their are multiple different work processes for different types of tasks.
			- A dispatcher assigns a work process to the user process.
			- It handles the actual business logic behind the scenes.
			- Has a task handler.
			- __Contains__ :
				- Screen Process : Executes the screen flow logic, ensures that all the field contents are transferred from screen screen to flow logic upon a user request.
				- ABAP Interpreter : Executes the processing logic of the application program and communicates with DB Interpreter.
					- Screen processor tells the ABAP interpreter which module of the screen flow logic to be processed next.
				- DB Interpreter : Forge the DB requests.
					- Access the database tables.
					- Access the ABAP Dictionary.
					- Controlling the transactions ( commit and rollback ).
					- Buffer administration.
		- __Dialogue Step__
			- A series of programming logic between two successive screens.
		- ### Logical unit of work
		  id:: 674e9d4e-bbb9-433f-997e-caea3d8908a0
			- It is the time required to complete an database operation which involves data modification. either all the changes are done in DB data or rollback of those changes.
			- #### Database LUW
				- Work related to DB like insert, update, delete and modify which are usually performed at database level.
			- #### SAP LUW
				- Represents a single unit of work which can be divided into multiple Database LUW.
				- Series of database LUW's.
	- ### Database layer.
	  id:: 674e8a79-6743-4d96-b074-ffd1bf43cca9
		- Enormous heap of information which acts upon user requests.
		- Can be used on any database of choice.
	- ### SAP Client
		- A separate entity within an SAP system which its own master data , transactional data and user master.
		- __Master data__ : data which is required by business to perform business operations like customer information , employee information and product information.
		- __Transactional data__ : data which is created or changed on data to day business operations.
		- Client number ranges from 000 - 999.
		- Different types of clients in SAP system : Development client, testing client , production client.
		- __Client dependant__ : Tables with the field MANDT which represents the client number.
			- Data set in these table can be different.
		- __Client independent__ : Tables with no MANDT field , these tables are also called cross client table.
		- **Smart forms** : are client independent because they are driven by function modules and these function modules are client indpendent.
		- **Scripts** : are client dependents because they are driven by text elements which are in turn client dependent.
	- ### Master Data
		- All the nouns like clients , customer , employee , material.
	- ### Transactional Data
		- Action performed by master data like invoice , receipt , sales order.
- [[ABAP]]
- [[HANA]]
-